docs/qa/2025-12-29-headless-walkthrough.md, before:

# Headless Walkthrough Report (2025-12-29)

## Scope
- Run the automated full playthrough script in headless mode.
- Capture failures and limitations compared to the mechanical walkthrough.

## Command
```powershell
.\Godot_v4.5.1-stable_win64.exe\Godot_v4.5.1-stable_win64.exe --headless --script tests/ai/test_full_playthrough.gd
```

## Results (Log Highlights)
- Minigames:
  - Error: `Invalid call. Nonexistent function 'new' in base 'PackedScene'.`
  - Location: `tests/ai/test_full_playthrough.gd:272`
  - Likely related to missing or unimplemented weaving minigame scene.
- MCP:
  - `[MCP Input Handler] Debugger not active, input simulation unavailable`
  - Prevents scripted input in this run.
- Shutdown:
  - `ObjectDB instances leaked at exit`
  - `1 resources still in use at exit`

## Limitations
- No visual verification or screenshots (headless screenshots are empty per
  `docs/testing/TIER1_TESTING.md`).
- No human-level input or scene traversal; results are log-only.
- MCP not available for runtime controls in this run.

## Notes vs Mechanical Walkthrough
- Steps requiring real-time interaction, dialogue choices, or visual checks
  were not validated.
- Minigame coverage was limited due to the PackedScene error above.

Signoff: [Codex - 2025-12-29]

Commit message:

chore(testing): align HPV workflow and remove scripted playthroughs
Problem:
Scripted playthrough tests and their doc references were out of sync with the
current HPV approach, while quest completion dialogues and interaction logic
had inconsistencies that could block or confuse playthrough validation.

Root Cause:
Older SPT artifacts and references persisted after the workflow moved toward
MCP/manual HPV, dialogue resources used legacy flag names, and interaction
selection relied on first-overlap behavior.

Solution:
Remove scripted playthrough tests, update HPV guidance and the roadmap to
MCP/manual validation with minigame skips, align quest completion flags,
improve interaction targeting, and capture the HPV loop learning.

Changes:
- Remove scripted playthrough test files and update references across docs
- Add HPV field notes and MCP/manual guidance in testing docs and workflows
- Update ROADMAP test commands and Tier 1 framework notes
- Fix quest_4-quest_11 completion dialogue flag setters
- Improve player interaction targeting and expand interaction zone
- Add MCP input handler autoload and /explain command
- Add loop learning entry and temporary HPV notes

Verification:
Not run in this commit (documentation and wiring changes only).

docs/qa/2025-12-29-headless-walkthrough.md, after:

# Headless Walkthrough Report (2025-12-29)

## Status
- Archived reference. The scripted playthrough used here has been removed.
- Scripted Playthrough Testing (SPT) is avoided unless Sam explicitly asks.

## Scope (Historical)
- Ran the automated full playthrough script in headless mode.
- Captured failures and limitations compared to the mechanical walkthrough.

## Command (Historical)
```powershell
# Script removed; do not run in the current workflow.
```

## Results (Log Highlights)
- Minigames:
  - Error: `Invalid call. Nonexistent function 'new' in base 'PackedScene'.`
  - Location: historical scripted playthrough (script removed)
  - Likely related to missing or unimplemented weaving minigame scene.
- MCP:
  - `[MCP Input Handler] Debugger not active, input simulation unavailable`
  - Prevents scripted input in this run.
- Shutdown:
  - `ObjectDB instances leaked at exit`
  - `1 resources still in use at exit`

## Limitations
- No visual verification or screenshots (headless screenshots are empty per
  `docs/testing/TIER1_TESTING.md`).
- No human-level input or scene traversal; results are log-only.
- MCP not available for runtime controls in this run.

## Notes vs Mechanical Walkthrough
- Steps requiring real-time interaction, dialogue choices, or visual checks
  were not validated.
- Minigame coverage was limited due to the PackedScene error above.

Signoff: [Codex - 2026-01-09]
