docs/agent-instructions/tools/workflows.md, before:

# Standard Workflows

**Common workflows and procedures for agents**

This document outlines standard workflows that agents should follow for common tasks.

---

## 🚀 Multi-Step Project Planning Protocol

**When starting a new multi-step block of work, always follow this protocol:**

### Phase 1: Initial Understanding
1. Explore codebase to understand current state
2. Read relevant documentation
3. Identify key files and patterns
4. Use Glob, Grep, and Read tools directly (no sub-agents)

**Example:**
```gdscript
# Find relevant files
Glob(pattern: "**/*quest*.gd")
Glob(pattern: "**/*dialogue*.gd")

# Search for patterns
Grep(pattern: "quest_.*_complete")
Grep(pattern: "signal.*quest")

# Read key files
Read(file_path: "game/shared/resources/dialogues/quest3_start.tres")
```

### Phase 2: Q&A Phase (MANDATORY for new blocks)
1. Ask clarifying questions about scope, priorities, and assumptions
2. Use AskUserQuestion tool to get user input
3. Cover: implementation scope, file modifications, testing requirements, phase priorities

**Example Questions:**
- "Should this feature work with existing save/load system?"
- "Do you want automated tests included?"
- "What are the priority requirements?"
- "Are there any constraints I should know about?"

### Phase 3: Planning Phase
1. Create detailed plan with phases
2. Include specific file paths to modify
3. Document user clarifications received
4. State assumptions explicitly

**Example Plan:**
```gdscript
# Use TodoWrite for tracking
TodoWrite(todos=[
    {"content": "Update quest_4.gd to add new dialogue", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Updating quest_4.gd"},
    {"content": "Create test for quest progression", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Creating quest test"},
    {"content": "Run tests to verify functionality", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Running tests"}
])
```

### Phase 4: Review Phase
1. Present plan to user
2. Get approval before proceeding
3. Adjust based on feedback

---

## 🛠️ When to Apply This Protocol

### ✅ Apply Protocol
- New feature implementation
- Multi-file refactoring
- New quest/content development
- Significant testing methodology changes
- Project restructuring

### ❌ Don't Apply
- Single file edits
- Small bug fixes
- Simple documentation updates
- Continuing existing task

---

## 📝 Planning and Documentation Workflow

### Step 1: Try TodoWrite First

**For most multi-step tasks, use TodoWrite:**

```gdscript
TodoWrite(todos=[
    {"content": "Task 1 description", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Task 1"},
    {"content": "Task 2 description", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Task 2"},
    {"content": "Task 3 description", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Task 3"}
])
```

**Benefits:**
- Integrated with CLI (`/todos` command)
- Progress visible to user in real-time
- No extra files created
- Can be updated incrementally
- Automatically cleaned up after task

### Step 2: Consider Plan Documents

**Only create plan documents if:**
- Task is complex enough that a detailed plan is essential
- Plan will be a **canonical reference** for future agents
- You've tried TodoWrite and it's insufficient for complexity

**Storage Options:**

1. **Canonical docs** → `docs/plans/` (kept long-term, added to docs index)
2. **One-off implementation plans** → `temp/plans/` (deleted after completion)

### Step 3: Never Do This

❌ **DON'T create throwaway plans in `docs/plans/`:**
```
Created: docs/plans/my-implementation-plan-2026-01-03.md
Purpose: Just for this task
Result: Clutters repo with single-use documents
```

### Step 4: Post-Task Cleanup

- Review any plan documents created
- Move canonical docs to `docs/plans/` and add to index
- Delete one-off plans from `temp/plans/`
- Never leave throwaway plans in the repo

---

## 🧪 Testing Workflow

### Standard Test Execution

```bash
# 1. Run HPV for playability validation
Godot*.exe --path . --script tests/autonomous_headed_playthrough.gd

# 2. Run HLC for fast logic checks when useful
Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/run_tests.gd

# 3. Use verification skill before claiming complete
Skill(skill: "verification-before-completion")
```

### Test Categories

**Logic Tests (HLC):**
- Dialogue flow: `tests/phase3_dialogue_flow_test.gd`
- Minigame mechanics: `tests/phase3_minigame_mechanics_test.gd`
- Soft-lock scenarios: `tests/phase3_softlock_test.gd`
- Balance testing: `tests/phase4_balance_test.gd`

**Visual Tests (HPV):**
- UI verification: `tests/ui_verification_test.gd`
- Screenshot capture: `tests/visual_screenshot_test.gd`
- Visual state inspection: `tests/autonomous_headed_playthrough.gd`

### Test-Driven Development

**Before writing new features:**

```gdscript
# 1. Invoke TDD skill
Skill(skill: "test-driven-development")

# 2. Write tests first
# 3. Implement feature
# 4. Verify tests pass
```

---

## 🐛 Debugging Workflow

### When Encountering Bugs

```gdscript
# 1. Invoke systematic-debugging skill
Skill(skill: "systematic-debugging")

# 2. Follow skill guidance
# 3. Document findings
# 4. Create fix
# 5. Verify solution
```

### When Stuck in Loops

```gdscript
# 1. Detect loop (after 3 attempts at same goal)
# 2. Invoke loop-detection skill
Skill(skill: "loop-detection")

# 3. Follow escape strategies
# 4. Document loop pattern
```

### When Completely Blocked

```gdscript
# 1. Invoke blocked-and-escalating skill
Skill(skill: "blocked-and-escalating")

# 2. Create structured escalation report
# 3. Document blocking issue
# 4. Request tier-appropriate escalation
```

---

## 🎯 Skill Invocation Workflow

### Before Writing Code

1. **Check available skills**
   ```gdscript
   # List of available skills in skill-inventory.md
   ```

2. **Invoke relevant skill**
   ```gdscript
   # Godot work
   Skill(skill: "godot-dev")

   # Bug encountered
   Skill(skill: "systematic-debugging")

   # New feature
   Skill(skill: "test-driven-development")
   ```

3. **Apply skill knowledge**
   - Don't duplicate skill knowledge
   - Use skill guidance for implementation
   - Follow skill-recommended patterns

### When Starting New Tasks

```gdscript
# 1. Always run token-aware-planning first
Skill(skill: "token-aware-planning")

# 2. Check for relevant skills
# 3. Plan work using TodoWrite
# 4. Proceed with implementation
```

---

## 🔧 Git Workflow

### Standard Git Operations

```bash
# Check status
git status

# Stage changes
git add .

# Create commit (use git-best-practices skill)
Skill(skill: "git-best-practices")

# Push changes
git push
```

### Commit Message Best Practices

**Use git-best-practices skill:**
```gdscript
Skill(skill: "git-best-practices", args: "-m 'Your commit message'")
```

**Follow conventional format:**
- feat: New feature
- fix: Bug fix
- test: Test additions/updates
- docs: Documentation changes
- refactor: Code refactoring
- chore: Maintenance tasks

**Example:**
```
feat(quest): add quest 4 dialogue system

- Add new dialogue nodes for quest 4
- Implement quest flag progression
- Add automated tests for quest flow

🤖 Generated with [Claude Code]
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Workflow

### Before Editing Documentation

1. **Tier 1 agents MUST invoke:**
   ```gdscript
   Skill(skill: "confident-language-guard")
   ```

2. **Use qualified language**
   - "typically", "often", "recommended"
   - NOT "always", "never", "must"

### Creating New Documentation

1. **Determine location:**
   - Canonical reference → `docs/`
   - One-off guide → `temp/`
   - Agent instructions → `docs/agent-instructions/`

2. **Check for existing docs**
   ```gdscript
   Grep(pattern: "topic", output_mode: "files_with_matches")
   ```

3. **Avoid duplicates**
   - Consolidate related information
   - Reference existing docs
   - Update rather than duplicate

---

## 🎮 Godot Development Workflow

### Working with Scenes

1. **Explore scene structure**
   ```gdscript
   # Use Glob to find scenes
   Glob(pattern: "**/*.tscn")

   # Read scene file
   Read(file_path: "game/features/world/world.tscn")
   ```

2. **Check for related scripts**
   ```gdscript
   # Find associated scripts
   Glob(pattern: "**/*world*.gd")
   ```

3. **Understand scene hierarchy**
   ```gdscript
   # Read external resources
   Read(file_path: "game/shared/resources/dialogues/quest3_start.tres")
   ```

### Working with GDScript

1. **Check for patterns**
   ```gdscript
   # Search for similar patterns
   Grep(pattern: "signal.*quest")
   Grep(pattern: "func.*_ready")
   ```

2. **Follow established patterns**
   - Use existing code as reference
   - Follow naming conventions
   - Maintain consistency

3. **Test changes**
   ```bash
   # Run relevant HLC tests
   Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/phase3_dialogue_flow_test.gd
   ```

---

## 🔍 Information Discovery Workflow

### Finding Information

1. **Search for keywords**
   ```gdscript
   # Use Grep to find relevant code
   Grep(pattern: "quest_.*_complete", output_mode: "content")

   # Find files by pattern
   Glob(pattern: "**/*quest*.gd")
   ```

2. **Read documentation**
   ```gdscript
   # Check agent instructions hub
   Read(file_path: "docs/agent-instructions/README.md")

   # Reference specific sections
   Read(file_path: "docs/agent-instructions/core-directives/project-rules.md")
   ```

3. **Check existing patterns**
   ```gdscript
   # Find similar implementations
   Grep(pattern: "func.*complete.*quest")
   ```

### Cross-Reference

1. **Check multiple sources**
   - Code files
   - Documentation
   - Test files
   - Skills inventory

2. **Validate understanding**
   - Confirm patterns with code
   - Check test expectations
   - Review documentation

---

## ⚠️ Common Pitfalls to Avoid

### Planning Mistakes

❌ Creating throwaway plans in `docs/plans/`
✅ Using TodoWrite or `temp/plans/` for one-off tasks

❌ Over-planning simple tasks
✅ Applying multi-step protocol only when appropriate

### Testing Mistakes

❌ Relying only on HLC for UX validation
✅ Using both HLC (logic) and HPV (visual) tests

❌ Skipping visual testing for speed
✅ Including visual validation in all test runs

### Documentation Mistakes

❌ Creating duplicate documentation
✅ Consolidating and referencing existing docs

❌ Using absolute language (Tier 1 agents)
✅ Using qualified language with confident-language-guard

### Skill Mistakes

❌ Not checking for relevant skills before coding
✅ Always check skill inventory first

❌ Manually implementing what skills already know
✅ Invoke skills and apply their knowledge

---

## 📖 Additional Resources

**Core Directives:**
- **Project rules:** [`../core-directives/project-rules.md`](../core-directives/project-rules.md)
- **Role permissions:** [`../core-directives/role-permissions.md`](../core-directives/role-permissions.md)
- **Skills inventory:** [`../core-directives/skill-inventory.md`](../core-directives/skill-inventory.md)

**Setup Guides:**
- **MCP setup:** [`../setup-guides/mcp-setup.md`](../setup-guides/mcp-setup.md)
- **MiniMax integration:** [`../setup-guides/minimax-integration/`](../setup-guides/minimax-integration/)
- **Testing framework:** [`../setup-guides/testing-framework.md`](../setup-guides/testing-framework.md)

**Tools:**
- **Permissions:** [`permissions.md`](./permissions.md)

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-08
**Purpose:** Standard workflows and procedures for agents

[Codex - 2026-01-08]

Commit message:

chore(testing): align HPV workflow and remove scripted playthroughs
Problem:
Scripted playthrough tests and their doc references were out of sync with the
current HPV approach, while quest completion dialogues and interaction logic
had inconsistencies that could block or confuse playthrough validation.

Root Cause:
Older SPT artifacts and references persisted after the workflow moved toward
MCP/manual HPV, dialogue resources used legacy flag names, and interaction
selection relied on first-overlap behavior.

Solution:
Remove scripted playthrough tests, update HPV guidance and the roadmap to
MCP/manual validation with minigame skips, align quest completion flags,
improve interaction targeting, and capture the HPV loop learning.

Changes:
- Remove scripted playthrough test files and update references across docs
- Add HPV field notes and MCP/manual guidance in testing docs and workflows
- Update ROADMAP test commands and Tier 1 framework notes
- Fix quest_4-quest_11 completion dialogue flag setters
- Improve player interaction targeting and expand interaction zone
- Add MCP input handler autoload and /explain command
- Add loop learning entry and temporary HPV notes

Verification:
Not run in this commit (documentation and wiring changes only).

docs/agent-instructions/tools/workflows.md, after:

# Standard Workflows

**Common workflows and procedures for agents**

This document outlines standard workflows that agents should follow for common tasks.

---

## 🚀 Multi-Step Project Planning Protocol

**When starting a new multi-step block of work, always follow this protocol:**

### Phase 1: Initial Understanding
1. Explore codebase to understand current state
2. Read relevant documentation
3. Identify key files and patterns
4. Use Glob, Grep, and Read tools directly (no sub-agents)

**Example:**
```gdscript
# Find relevant files
Glob(pattern: "**/*quest*.gd")
Glob(pattern: "**/*dialogue*.gd")

# Search for patterns
Grep(pattern: "quest_.*_complete")
Grep(pattern: "signal.*quest")

# Read key files
Read(file_path: "game/shared/resources/dialogues/quest3_start.tres")
```

### Phase 2: Q&A Phase (MANDATORY for new blocks)
1. Ask clarifying questions about scope, priorities, and assumptions
2. Use AskUserQuestion tool to get user input
3. Cover: implementation scope, file modifications, testing requirements, phase priorities

**Example Questions:**
- "Should this feature work with existing save/load system?"
- "Do you want automated tests included?"
- "What are the priority requirements?"
- "Are there any constraints I should know about?"

### Phase 3: Planning Phase
1. Create detailed plan with phases
2. Include specific file paths to modify
3. Document user clarifications received
4. State assumptions explicitly

**Example Plan:**
```gdscript
# Use TodoWrite for tracking
TodoWrite(todos=[
    {"content": "Update quest_4.gd to add new dialogue", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Updating quest_4.gd"},
    {"content": "Create test for quest progression", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Creating quest test"},
    {"content": "Run tests to verify functionality", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Running tests"}
])
```

### Phase 4: Review Phase
1. Present plan to user
2. Get approval before proceeding
3. Adjust based on feedback

---

## 🛠️ When to Apply This Protocol

### ✅ Apply Protocol
- New feature implementation
- Multi-file refactoring
- New quest/content development
- Significant testing methodology changes
- Project restructuring

### ❌ Don't Apply
- Single file edits
- Small bug fixes
- Simple documentation updates
- Continuing existing task

---

## 📝 Planning and Documentation Workflow

### Step 1: Try TodoWrite First

**For most multi-step tasks, use TodoWrite:**

```gdscript
TodoWrite(todos=[
    {"content": "Task 1 description", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Task 1"},
    {"content": "Task 2 description", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Task 2"},
    {"content": "Task 3 description", "status": "pending", "activeForm": "Task 3"}
])
```

**Benefits:**
- Integrated with CLI (`/todos` command)
- Progress visible to user in real-time
- No extra files created
- Can be updated incrementally
- Automatically cleaned up after task

### Step 2: Consider Plan Documents

**Only create plan documents if:**
- Task is complex enough that a detailed plan is essential
- Plan will be a **canonical reference** for future agents
- You've tried TodoWrite and it's insufficient for complexity

**Storage Options:**

1. **Canonical docs** → `docs/plans/` (kept long-term, added to docs index)
2. **One-off implementation plans** → `temp/plans/` (deleted after completion)

### Step 3: Never Do This

❌ **DON'T create throwaway plans in `docs/plans/`:**
```
Created: docs/plans/my-implementation-plan-2026-01-03.md
Purpose: Just for this task
Result: Clutters repo with single-use documents
```

### Step 4: Post-Task Cleanup

- Review any plan documents created
- Move canonical docs to `docs/plans/` and add to index
- Delete one-off plans from `temp/plans/`
- Never leave throwaway plans in the repo

---

## 🧪 Testing Workflow

### Standard Test Execution

```bash
# 1. Run HPV for playability validation (MCP/manual)
# Use MCP to run the project and simulate input, or play manually.
# If HPV shows a completion dialogue does not set a `*_dialogue_seen` flag, check the dialogue resource setter for underscore mismatches.

# 2. Run HLC for fast logic checks when useful
Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/run_tests.gd

# 3. Use verification skill before claiming complete
Skill(skill: "verification-before-completion")
```

### Test Categories

**Logic Tests (HLC):**
- Dialogue flow: `tests/phase3_dialogue_flow_test.gd`
- Minigame mechanics: `tests/phase3_minigame_mechanics_test.gd`
- Soft-lock scenarios: `tests/phase3_softlock_test.gd`
- Balance testing: `tests/phase4_balance_test.gd`

**Visual Tests (HPV):**
- MCP/manual playthrough with notes or screenshots
- Runtime inspection via MCP when helpful

**Scripted Playthrough Testing (SPT):**
- SPT is automation, not a playtest.
- Use it when Sam explicitly asks; otherwise avoid it.

### Test-Driven Development

**Before writing new features:**

```gdscript
# 1. Invoke TDD skill
Skill(skill: "test-driven-development")

# 2. Write tests first
# 3. Implement feature
# 4. Verify tests pass
```

---

## 🐛 Debugging Workflow

### When Encountering Bugs

```gdscript
# 1. Invoke systematic-debugging skill
Skill(skill: "systematic-debugging")

# 2. Follow skill guidance
# 3. Document findings
# 4. Create fix
# 5. Verify solution
```

### When Stuck in Loops

```gdscript
# 1. Detect loop (after 3 attempts at same goal)
# 2. Invoke loop-detection skill
Skill(skill: "loop-detection")

# 3. Follow escape strategies
# 4. Document loop pattern
```

### When Completely Blocked

```gdscript
# 1. Invoke blocked-and-escalating skill
Skill(skill: "blocked-and-escalating")

# 2. Create structured escalation report
# 3. Document blocking issue
# 4. Request tier-appropriate escalation
```

---

## 🎯 Skill Invocation Workflow

### Before Writing Code

1. **Check available skills**
   ```gdscript
   # List of available skills in skill-inventory.md
   ```

2. **Invoke relevant skill**
   ```gdscript
   # Godot work
   Skill(skill: "godot-dev")

   # Bug encountered
   Skill(skill: "systematic-debugging")

   # New feature
   Skill(skill: "test-driven-development")
   ```

3. **Apply skill knowledge**
   - Don't duplicate skill knowledge
   - Use skill guidance for implementation
   - Follow skill-recommended patterns

### When Starting New Tasks

```gdscript
# 1. Always run token-aware-planning first
Skill(skill: "token-aware-planning")

# 2. Check for relevant skills
# 3. Plan work using TodoWrite
# 4. Proceed with implementation
```

---

## 🔧 Git Workflow

### Standard Git Operations

```bash
# Check status
git status

# Stage changes
git add .

# Create commit (use git-best-practices skill)
Skill(skill: "git-best-practices")

# Push changes
git push
```

### Commit Message Best Practices

**Use git-best-practices skill:**
```gdscript
Skill(skill: "git-best-practices", args: "-m 'Your commit message'")
```

**Follow conventional format:**
- feat: New feature
- fix: Bug fix
- test: Test additions/updates
- docs: Documentation changes
- refactor: Code refactoring
- chore: Maintenance tasks

**Example:**
```
feat(quest): add quest 4 dialogue system

- Add new dialogue nodes for quest 4
- Implement quest flag progression
- Add automated tests for quest flow

🤖 Generated with [Claude Code]
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Workflow

### Before Editing Documentation

1. **Tier 1 agents MUST invoke:**
   ```gdscript
   Skill(skill: "confident-language-guard")
   ```

2. **Use qualified language**
   - "typically", "often", "recommended"
   - NOT "always", "never", "must"

### Creating New Documentation

1. **Determine location:**
   - Canonical reference → `docs/`
   - One-off guide → `temp/`
   - Agent instructions → `docs/agent-instructions/`

2. **Check for existing docs**
   ```gdscript
   Grep(pattern: "topic", output_mode: "files_with_matches")
   ```

3. **Avoid duplicates**
   - Consolidate related information
   - Reference existing docs
   - Update rather than duplicate

---

## 🎮 Godot Development Workflow

### Working with Scenes

1. **Explore scene structure**
   ```gdscript
   # Use Glob to find scenes
   Glob(pattern: "**/*.tscn")

   # Read scene file
   Read(file_path: "game/features/world/world.tscn")
   ```

2. **Check for related scripts**
   ```gdscript
   # Find associated scripts
   Glob(pattern: "**/*world*.gd")
   ```

3. **Understand scene hierarchy**
   ```gdscript
   # Read external resources
   Read(file_path: "game/shared/resources/dialogues/quest3_start.tres")
   ```

### Working with GDScript

1. **Check for patterns**
   ```gdscript
   # Search for similar patterns
   Grep(pattern: "signal.*quest")
   Grep(pattern: "func.*_ready")
   ```

2. **Follow established patterns**
   - Use existing code as reference
   - Follow naming conventions
   - Maintain consistency

3. **Test changes**
   ```bash
   # Run relevant HLC tests
   Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/phase3_dialogue_flow_test.gd
   ```

---

## 🔍 Information Discovery Workflow

### Finding Information

1. **Search for keywords**
   ```gdscript
   # Use Grep to find relevant code
   Grep(pattern: "quest_.*_complete", output_mode: "content")

   # Find files by pattern
   Glob(pattern: "**/*quest*.gd")
   ```

2. **Read documentation**
   ```gdscript
   # Check agent instructions hub
   Read(file_path: "docs/agent-instructions/README.md")

   # Reference specific sections
   Read(file_path: "docs/agent-instructions/core-directives/project-rules.md")
   ```

3. **Check existing patterns**
   ```gdscript
   # Find similar implementations
   Grep(pattern: "func.*complete.*quest")
   ```

### Cross-Reference

1. **Check multiple sources**
   - Code files
   - Documentation
   - Test files
   - Skills inventory

2. **Validate understanding**
   - Confirm patterns with code
   - Check test expectations
   - Review documentation

---

## ⚠️ Common Pitfalls to Avoid

### Planning Mistakes

❌ Creating throwaway plans in `docs/plans/`
✅ Using TodoWrite or `temp/plans/` for one-off tasks

❌ Over-planning simple tasks
✅ Applying multi-step protocol only when appropriate

### Testing Mistakes

❌ Relying only on HLC for UX validation
✅ Using both HLC (logic) and HPV (visual) tests

❌ Skipping visual testing for speed
✅ Including visual validation in all test runs

### Documentation Mistakes

❌ Creating duplicate documentation
✅ Consolidating and referencing existing docs

❌ Using absolute language (Tier 1 agents)
✅ Using qualified language with confident-language-guard

### Skill Mistakes

❌ Not checking for relevant skills before coding
✅ Always check skill inventory first

❌ Manually implementing what skills already know
✅ Invoke skills and apply their knowledge

---

## 📖 Additional Resources

**Core Directives:**
- **Project rules:** [`../core-directives/project-rules.md`](../core-directives/project-rules.md)
- **Role permissions:** [`../core-directives/role-permissions.md`](../core-directives/role-permissions.md)
- **Skills inventory:** [`../core-directives/skill-inventory.md`](../core-directives/skill-inventory.md)

**Setup Guides:**
- **MCP setup:** [`../setup-guides/mcp-setup.md`](../setup-guides/mcp-setup.md)
- **MiniMax integration:** [`../setup-guides/minimax-integration/`](../setup-guides/minimax-integration/)
- **Testing framework:** [`../setup-guides/testing-framework.md`](../setup-guides/testing-framework.md)

**Tools:**
- **Permissions:** [`permissions.md`](./permissions.md)

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-09
**Purpose:** Standard workflows and procedures for agents

[Codex - 2026-01-09]
[Codex - 2026-01-11]
