docs/agent-instructions/setup-guides/mcp-setup.md, before:

# Godot MCP Setup Guide

## Overview
This project uses **godot-mcp-cli** to enable AI agents (Claude Code, Claude Desktop) to interact with Godot at a deep level for autonomous, iterative testing and development.

## Installation Status
✅ **Addon Installed**: `addons/godot_mcp/`
✅ **Plugin Enabled**: Added to `project.godot`
✅ **VS Code Configuration**: `.vscode/mcp.json` configured

## What is Installed

### Godot MCP CLI (v1.0.9+)
A comprehensive MCP server that provides full Godot project access through the Model Context Protocol.

**Key Capabilities:**
- **Scene & Node Operations**: Full hierarchy inspection, node creation/deletion, property management
- **Debugging Features**: Breakpoint management, execution control (pause/resume/step), call stack inspection
- **Input Simulation**: Keyboard, mouse, and action input with timing control
- **Script Management**: Read, create, edit, attach/detach scripts
- **Debug Output**: Real-time debug output streaming and stack trace capture
- **Project Access**: File enumeration, project info, settings access

### Addon Components
Located in `addons/godot_mcp/`:
- `mcp_debugger_bridge.gd` - Debugging interface with breakpoint support
- `mcp_input_handler.gd` - Input simulation for autonomous testing
- `mcp_debug_output_publisher.gd` - Real-time debug output capture
- `mcp_enhanced_commands.gd` - Extended command set
- `websocket_server.gd` - WebSocket communication layer

## Configuration

### VS Code MCP Configuration
File: `.vscode/mcp.json`

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "godot-mcp": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "godot-mcp-cli@latest"],
      "env": {
        "MCP_TRANSPORT": "stdio",
        "GODOT_PROJECT_PATH": "C:\\Users\\Sam\\Documents\\GitHub\\v2_heras_garden",
        "DEBUG": "false"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Environment Variables:**
- `MCP_TRANSPORT`: Set to `stdio` for VS Code integration
- `GODOT_PROJECT_PATH`: Absolute path to your Godot project
- `DEBUG`: Set to `true` for verbose logging

### Project Configuration
The plugin is enabled in `project.godot`:
```
[editor_plugins]
enabled=PackedStringArray(..., "res://addons/godot_mcp/plugin.cfg")
```

## How to Use

### 1. Start Godot Editor
Open your project in Godot. The MCP addon will automatically start when the editor loads.

### 2. Use with VS Code + Claude Code
With the `.vscode/mcp.json` configured, Claude Code can now:
- Query scene hierarchies
- Modify nodes and properties
- Run the game and capture output
- Set breakpoints and step through code
- Simulate player input for testing
- Read and edit scripts

### 3. Example Agent Workflows

#### Autonomous Testing
```
Agent: "Run the game, simulate pressing 'Space' after 2 seconds, and capture any errors"
- MCP starts the game via `run_project`
- Waits 2000ms
- Sends input action via `simulate_input_action`
- Captures debug output via `get_debug_output`
- Reports results back
```

#### Interactive Debugging
```
Agent: "Set a breakpoint in player.gd at line 45, run the game, and when hit, show me the call stack"
- MCP sets breakpoint via `add_breakpoint`
- Starts game via `run_project`
- Waits for breakpoint hit event
- Retrieves stack via `get_call_stack`
- Displays stack trace
```

#### Scene Modification
```
Agent: "Add a new Label node to the Main scene and set its text to 'Test'"
- MCP opens scene via `open_scene`
- Gets scene root via `get_editor_scene_structure`
- Creates node via `create_node`
- Sets property via `set_node_property`
- Saves scene via `save_current_scene`
```

## Available MCP Tools

### Scene Management
- `get_editor_scene_structure` - Get full scene hierarchy
- `get_runtime_scene_structure` - Get running game's scene tree
- `open_scene` - Open a scene file
- `save_current_scene` - Save active scene
- `create_scene` - Create new scene

### Node Operations
- `create_node` - Create new node
- `delete_node` - Remove node
- `get_node_property` - Read node property
- `set_node_property` - Modify node property
- `reparent_node` - Move node in tree

### Script Handling
- `read_script` - Get script contents
- `create_script` - Create new script
- `edit_script` - Modify script
- `attach_script` - Attach script to node
- `detach_script` - Remove script from node

### Debugging
- `add_breakpoint` - Set breakpoint
- `remove_breakpoint` - Clear breakpoint
- `get_call_stack` - Retrieve stack trace
- `pause_execution` - Pause game
- `resume_execution` - Resume game
- `step_execution` - Step through code

### Input Simulation
- `simulate_input_action` - Trigger input action
- `simulate_key_press` - Press keyboard key
- `simulate_mouse_click` - Click mouse button
- `execute_input_sequence` - Run timed input sequence

### Project Access
- `get_project_info` - Get project metadata
- `list_project_files` - Enumerate files
- `get_project_setting` - Read setting
- `search_files` - Search by pattern

## Testing the Setup

### Quick Test
1. Open Godot Editor with your project
2. In VS Code, ask Claude Code: "Can you see the Godot MCP tools?"
3. Claude should confirm access to godot-mcp tools

### Functional Test
Ask Claude Code to:
```
"Get the structure of the Main scene and tell me what nodes it contains"
```

If working correctly, Claude will use MCP to query the scene and report the hierarchy.

### Integration Test
Ask Claude Code to:
```
"Run the game for 5 seconds, press the 'interact' action after 2 seconds,
then stop the game and show me any debug output"
```

This tests: project execution, input simulation, debug capture, and project control.

## Troubleshooting

### MCP Server Won't Connect
- Ensure Godot is running with your project open
- Check that the plugin is enabled in Project Settings > Plugins
- Verify `GODOT_PROJECT_PATH` matches your actual project path
- Try setting `DEBUG=true` in mcp.json to see detailed logs

### "Missing tool" Errors
- Restart VS Code to reload MCP configuration
- Run `npx -y godot-mcp-cli@latest` manually to ensure it can install
- Check that Node.js version is recent (requires Node 18+)

### Breakpoints Not Working
- Ensure Godot Editor is in debug mode (not release)
- Check that scripts are saved and up-to-date
- Verify breakpoints are in executable code (not comments/empty lines)

### Input Simulation Not Working
- Ensure the action name exists in Project Settings > Input Map
- Check that the game is running when input is sent
- Verify timing - inputs sent too early might be ignored

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom WebSocket Port
The addon uses WebSocket for communication. To change the port, edit `addons/godot_mcp/websocket_server.gd`:
```gdscript
const DEFAULT_PORT = 8080  # Change this
```

### CLI Mode (Token Saving)
For lower context usage, you can use CLI mode instead of direct MCP integration:
```bash
godot-mcp get_editor_scene_structure
godot-mcp simulate_input_action "jump"
```

This is useful for scripted testing workflows outside of AI agent conversations.

## Security Notes

- The MCP server has **full access** to your Godot project
- It can read/write any file, execute code, and modify scenes
- Only use with trusted AI agents
- Review agent actions before confirming destructive operations
- Consider using version control (git) before autonomous testing sessions

## Next Steps

1. **Enable the Plugin**: Open Godot, go to Project > Project Settings > Plugins, and enable "Godot MCP"
2. **Test the Connection**: Use VS Code + Claude Code to verify MCP tools are accessible
3. **Start Testing**: Ask agents to run autonomous test workflows

## Resources

- [godot-mcp-cli GitHub](https://github.com/nguyenchiencong/godot-mcp-cli)
- [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [Claude Code Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude-code)

Commit message:

chore(testing): align HPV workflow and remove scripted playthroughs
Problem:
Scripted playthrough tests and their doc references were out of sync with the
current HPV approach, while quest completion dialogues and interaction logic
had inconsistencies that could block or confuse playthrough validation.

Root Cause:
Older SPT artifacts and references persisted after the workflow moved toward
MCP/manual HPV, dialogue resources used legacy flag names, and interaction
selection relied on first-overlap behavior.

Solution:
Remove scripted playthrough tests, update HPV guidance and the roadmap to
MCP/manual validation with minigame skips, align quest completion flags,
improve interaction targeting, and capture the HPV loop learning.

Changes:
- Remove scripted playthrough test files and update references across docs
- Add HPV field notes and MCP/manual guidance in testing docs and workflows
- Update ROADMAP test commands and Tier 1 framework notes
- Fix quest_4-quest_11 completion dialogue flag setters
- Improve player interaction targeting and expand interaction zone
- Add MCP input handler autoload and /explain command
- Add loop learning entry and temporary HPV notes

Verification:
Not run in this commit (documentation and wiring changes only).

docs/agent-instructions/setup-guides/mcp-setup.md, after:

# Godot MCP Setup Guide

## Overview
This project uses **godot-mcp-cli** to enable AI agents (Claude Code, Claude Desktop) to interact with Godot at a deep level for autonomous, iterative testing and development.

## Installation Status
✅ **Addon Installed**: `addons/godot_mcp/`
✅ **Plugin Enabled**: Added to `project.godot`
✅ **VS Code Configuration**: `.vscode/mcp.json` configured

## What is Installed

### Godot MCP CLI (v1.0.9+)
A comprehensive MCP server that provides full Godot project access through the Model Context Protocol.

**Key Capabilities:**
- **Scene & Node Operations**: Full hierarchy inspection, node creation/deletion, property management
- **Debugging Features**: Breakpoint management, execution control (pause/resume/step), call stack inspection
- **Input Simulation**: Keyboard, mouse, and action input with timing control
- **Script Management**: Read, create, edit, attach/detach scripts
- **Debug Output**: Real-time debug output streaming and stack trace capture
- **Project Access**: File enumeration, project info, settings access

### Addon Components
Located in `addons/godot_mcp/`:
- `mcp_debugger_bridge.gd` - Debugging interface with breakpoint support
- `mcp_input_handler.gd` - Input simulation for autonomous testing
- `mcp_debug_output_publisher.gd` - Real-time debug output capture
- `mcp_enhanced_commands.gd` - Extended command set
- `websocket_server.gd` - WebSocket communication layer

## Configuration

### VS Code MCP Configuration
File: `.vscode/mcp.json`

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "godot-mcp": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "godot-mcp-cli@latest"],
      "env": {
        "MCP_TRANSPORT": "stdio",
        "GODOT_PROJECT_PATH": "C:\\Users\\Sam\\Documents\\GitHub\\v2_heras_garden",
        "DEBUG": "false"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Environment Variables:**
- `MCP_TRANSPORT`: Set to `stdio` for VS Code integration
- `GODOT_PROJECT_PATH`: Absolute path to your Godot project
- `DEBUG`: Set to `true` for verbose logging

### Project Configuration
The plugin is enabled in `project.godot`:
```
[editor_plugins]
enabled=PackedStringArray(..., "res://addons/godot_mcp/plugin.cfg")
```

## How to Use

### 1. Start Godot Editor
Open your project in Godot. The MCP addon will automatically start when the editor loads.

### 2. Use with VS Code + Claude Code
With the `.vscode/mcp.json` configured, Claude Code can now:
- Query scene hierarchies
- Modify nodes and properties
- Run the game and capture output
- Set breakpoints and step through code
- Simulate player input for testing
- Read and edit scripts

### 3. Example Agent Workflows

#### Autonomous Testing
```
Agent: "Run the game, simulate pressing 'Space' after 2 seconds, and capture any errors"
- MCP starts the game via `run_project`
- Waits 2000ms
- Sends input action via `simulate_input_action`
- Captures debug output via `get_debug_output`
- Reports results back
```

#### Interactive Debugging
```
Agent: "Set a breakpoint in player.gd at line 45, run the game, and when hit, show me the call stack"
- MCP sets breakpoint via `add_breakpoint`
- Starts game via `run_project`
- Waits for breakpoint hit event
- Retrieves stack via `get_call_stack`
- Displays stack trace
```

#### Scene Modification
```
Agent: "Add a new Label node to the Main scene and set its text to 'Test'"
- MCP opens scene via `open_scene`
- Gets scene root via `get_editor_scene_structure`
- Creates node via `create_node`
- Sets property via `set_node_property`
- Saves scene via `save_current_scene`
```

## Available MCP Tools

### Scene Management
- `get_editor_scene_structure` - Get full scene hierarchy
- `get_runtime_scene_structure` - Get running game's scene tree
- `open_scene` - Open a scene file
- `save_current_scene` - Save active scene
- `create_scene` - Create new scene

### Node Operations
- `create_node` - Create new node
- `delete_node` - Remove node
- `get_node_property` - Read node property
- `set_node_property` - Modify node property
- `reparent_node` - Move node in tree

### Script Handling
- `read_script` - Get script contents
- `create_script` - Create new script
- `edit_script` - Modify script
- `attach_script` - Attach script to node
- `detach_script` - Remove script from node

### Debugging
- `add_breakpoint` - Set breakpoint
- `remove_breakpoint` - Clear breakpoint
- `get_call_stack` - Retrieve stack trace
- `pause_execution` - Pause game
- `resume_execution` - Resume game
- `step_execution` - Step through code

### Input Simulation
- `simulate_input_action` - Trigger input action
- `simulate_key_press` - Press keyboard key
- `simulate_mouse_click` - Click mouse button
- `execute_input_sequence` - Run timed input sequence

### Project Access
- `get_project_info` - Get project metadata
- `list_project_files` - Enumerate files
- `get_project_setting` - Read setting
- `search_files` - Search by pattern

## Testing the Setup

### Quick Test
1. Open Godot Editor with your project
2. In VS Code, ask Claude Code: "Can you see the Godot MCP tools?"
3. Claude should confirm access to godot-mcp tools

### Functional Test
Ask Claude Code to:
```
"Get the structure of the Main scene and tell me what nodes it contains"
```

If working correctly, Claude will use MCP to query the scene and report the hierarchy.

### Integration Test
Ask Claude Code to:
```
"Run the game for 5 seconds, press the 'interact' action after 2 seconds,
then stop the game and show me any debug output"
```

This tests: project execution, input simulation, debug capture, and project control.

## Troubleshooting

### MCP Server Won't Connect
- Ensure Godot is running with your project open
- Check that the plugin is enabled in Project Settings > Plugins
- Verify `GODOT_PROJECT_PATH` matches your actual project path
- Try setting `DEBUG=true` in mcp.json to see detailed logs
- If the MCP handshake still fails while Godot is already running, close all Godot editor instances and relaunch a single editor for this project, then retry MCP.
- If Godot or the debugger is not running, ask Sam to start them (do not attempt to fix or launch in that state).

### "Missing tool" Errors
- Restart VS Code to reload MCP configuration
- Run `npx -y godot-mcp-cli@latest` manually to ensure it can install
- Check that Node.js version is recent (requires Node 18+)

### Breakpoints Not Working
- Ensure Godot Editor is in debug mode (not release)
- Check that scripts are saved and up-to-date
- Verify breakpoints are in executable code (not comments/empty lines)

### Input Simulation Not Working
- Ensure the action name exists in Project Settings > Input Map
- Check that the game is running when input is sent
- Verify timing - inputs sent too early might be ignored

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom WebSocket Port
The addon uses WebSocket for communication. To change the port, edit `addons/godot_mcp/websocket_server.gd`:
```gdscript
const DEFAULT_PORT = 8080  # Change this
```

### CLI Mode (Token Saving)
For lower context usage, you can use CLI mode instead of direct MCP integration:
```bash
godot-mcp get_editor_scene_structure
godot-mcp simulate_input_action "jump"
```

This is useful for scripted testing workflows outside of AI agent conversations.

## Security Notes

- The MCP server has **full access** to your Godot project
- It can read/write any file, execute code, and modify scenes
- Only use with trusted AI agents
- Review agent actions before confirming destructive operations
- Consider using version control (git) before autonomous testing sessions

## Next Steps

1. **Enable the Plugin**: Open Godot, go to Project > Project Settings > Plugins, and enable "Godot MCP"
2. **Test the Connection**: Use VS Code + Claude Code to verify MCP tools are accessible
3. **Start Testing**: Ask agents to run autonomous test workflows

## Resources

- [godot-mcp-cli GitHub](https://github.com/nguyenchiencong/godot-mcp-cli)
- [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [Claude Code Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude-code)
