docs/agent-instructions/core-directives/project-rules.md, before:

# Project Rules & Constraints

**Core directives all agents must follow**

These are the critical rules extracted from CLAUDE.md. All agents must understand and follow these constraints.

---

## 🚨 CRITICAL: NO SUB-AGENTS

**NEVER use the Task tool to spawn sub-agents.** This is an absolute rule with no exceptions.

Sub-agents burned 70k+ tokens in under a minute. This is unacceptable.

**Exception: USE the Skill tool to invoke project skills. Skills are NOT sub-agents.**

Skills provide specialized knowledge without spawning agents.

### Use Direct Tools Only

- Glob, Grep, Read, Edit, Write, Bash
- No Task tool for research, exploration, or delegation
- Even if skills instruct agent spawning, DO NOT DO IT

---

## 🛠️ Use Skills First - Before Manual Implementation

**CHECK AVAILABLE SKILLS BEFORE WRITING CODE**

Available project skills (see also: [`../core-directives/skill-inventory.md`](../core-directives/skill-inventory.md)):

- `godot-dev` - Godot Engine expertise (scenes, nodes, GDScript)
- `godot-gdscript-patterns` - GDScript best practices and patterns
- `pixel-art-professional` - Advanced pixel art techniques (dithering, palette optimization, shading)
- `systematic-debugging` - Debug workflow for errors/bugs
- `test-driven-development` - TDD workflow before implementation
- `git-best-practices` - Commit message generation
- `skill-gap-finder` - Identify when to create new skills
- `token-aware-planning` - Match model to task for efficiency
- `verification-before-completion` - Verify work before claiming complete
- Other skills listed in skill inventory

**When to invoke skills:**

1. Working with Godot → Use `godot-dev` or `godot-gdscript-patterns`
2. Working with pixel art → Use `pixel-art-professional` (dithering, palettes, shading)
3. Encountering bugs → Use `systematic-debugging`
4. Writing new features → Use `test-driven-development`
5. Creating commits → Use `git-best-practices`
6. Starting new task → Use `token-aware-planning`
7. User explicitly asks you to "use your [X] skill"

**How to invoke:**

```gdscript
Skill(skill: "godot-dev")
Skill(skill: "pixel-art-professional")
Skill(skill: "systematic-debugging")
```

**IMPORTANT:** Don't manually implement what skills already know.

---

## ⚡ Token Efficiency

- **Opus**: Strategic planning and architecture decisions only
- **Sonnet**: All execution and editing work
- Keep responses concise
- Don't read entire large files unless necessary

---

## 🚀 Task Initiation

**ALWAYS run the token-aware-planning skill at the start of every new chat or task.**

Use `/token-aware-planning` or the Skill tool to invoke it before beginning work.

**After running token-aware-planning, check for relevant skills:**

1. Is this a Godot task? → Invoke `godot-dev` or `godot-gdscript-patterns`
2. Working with pixel art? → Invoke `pixel-art-professional`
3. Did something break? → Invoke `systematic-debugging`
4. Building new functionality? → Invoke `test-driven-development`
5. Making a commit? → Invoke `git-best-practices`

---

## 📋 Multi-Step Project Planning Protocol

**When starting a new multi-step block of work, always follow this protocol:**

### Phase 1: Initial Understanding
- Explore codebase to understand current state
- Read relevant documentation
- Identify key files and patterns
- Use Glob, Grep, and Read tools directly (no sub-agents)

### Phase 2: Q&A Phase (MANDATORY for new blocks)
- Ask clarifying questions about scope, priorities, and assumptions
- Use AskUserQuestion tool to get user input
- Cover: implementation scope, file modifications, testing requirements, phase priorities

### Phase 3: Planning Phase
- Create detailed plan with phases
- Include specific file paths to modify
- Document user clarifications received
- State assumptions explicitly

### Phase 4: Review Phase
- Present plan to user
- Get approval before proceeding
- Adjust based on feedback

**When to apply this protocol:**

- ✅ New feature implementation
- ✅ Multi-file refactoring
- ✅ New quest/content development
- ✅ Significant testing methodology changes
- ✅ Project restructuring

**When NOT to apply:**

- ❌ Single file edits
- ❌ Small bug fixes
- ❌ Simple documentation updates
- ❌ Continuing existing task

---

## 📝 Planning and Documentation Guidelines

**CRITICAL: Avoid Documentation Clutter**

**DO NOT create one-off planning documents in `docs/plans/` unless the plan is a canonical reference needed by future agents.**

### When Planning:

1. **First Try TodoWrite**
   - Use `TodoWrite(todos=[...])` for most multi-step tasks
   - This is the preferred tracking method
   - Keep todo list as your plan

2. **Only Create Plan Documents If:**
   - The task is complex enough that a detailed plan is essential
   - The plan will be a **canonical reference** for future agents
   - You've tried TodoWrite and it's insufficient for the complexity

3. **Plan Document Storage:**
   - **Canonical docs** → `docs/plans/` (kept long-term, added to docs index)
   - **One-off implementation plans** → `temp/plans/` (deleted after completion)
   - **Never** create throwaway plans in `docs/plans/`

### Examples:

❌ **DON'T DO THIS:**
```
Created: docs/plans/my-implementation-plan-2026-01-03.md
Purpose: Just for this task
Result: Clutters repo with single-use documents
```

✅ **DO THIS:**
```
Option 1: Use TodoWrite
Option 2: If absolutely necessary, create in temp/plans/ and delete after completion
```

### Post-Task Cleanup:
- Review any plan documents created
- Move canonical docs to `docs/plans/` and add to index
- Delete one-off plans from `temp/plans/`
- Never leave throwaway plans in the repo

### Why This Matters:
- Keeps `docs/` clean with only canonical references
- Makes it easy for future agents to find important docs
- Reduces repository clutter and confusion
- TodoWrite is often sufficient for task tracking

**Rule of Thumb:**
- **80% of tasks** → TodoWrite
- **15% of tasks** → temp/plans/ (one-off plans)
- **5% of tasks** → docs/plans/ (canonical plans)

---

## 🧪 Testing Methodology Requirements

**CRITICAL:** This section establishes cardinal rules for how agents approach testing. These rules are essential for validating human playability of the game.

**Context:** HLC can pass (118/118) but humans may not be able to play due to UX issues. We use a two-layer testing strategy: Headless Logic Check (HLC) + Headed Playability Validation (HPV).

### Strongly Recommended Testing Approach

**For UX/Playability Validation (HPV):**
- **Preferred:** Use Godot Tools with HPV (headed playability validation) and programmatic debugging
- **Tools:** VS Code debugger (F5), remote debug protocol (`--remote-debug tcp://127.0.0.1:6007`), enhanced test scripts
- **Approach:** Agents autonomously inspect game state, verify UI visibility, capture visual state
- **Goal:** Validate that humans can see, understand, and interact with game UI

**For Logic Validation:**
**For Logic Validation (HLC):**
- **Appropriate:** Headless Logic Check via CLI (`Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/*.gd`)
- **Goal:** Verify mechanics work (quest flags, inventory, save/load, crafting logic, day advancement)
- **When to use:** Fast regression testing, CI/CD validation

### Critical Distinction: When to Use Each Approach

**Avoid falling back to HLC log parsing when the goal is UX validation.**

- **HLC log parsing** can tell you IF something broke, but not WHY the human experience is broken
- **HPV (headed) testing** lets agents see what renders and inspect game state at any moment

**When testing human playability:**
- ❌ **Don't:** Run HLC → parse logs → guess at UI issues
- ✅ **Do:** Run HPV with programmatic debugging → inspect visual state → document findings

### Programmatic Debugging for Autonomous Testing

Agents can validate UX autonomously using HPV (headed mode) with debugging:

1. **Launch game in headed mode with remote debug (HPV):**
   ```powershell
   Godot*.exe --path . --remote-debug tcp://127.0.0.1:6007 --script tests/autonomous_headed_playthrough.gd
   ```

2. **Enhanced test scripts inspect state programmatically:**
   - Check UI visibility flags: `dialogue_box.visible`
   - Verify nodes exist: `minigame_node != null`
   - Capture and analyze screenshots
   - Print game variables, node properties, state flags
   - All without human interaction

3. **Key insight:**
   The limitation is NOT that agents need humans to click F5. The limitation is that HLC does not capture visual state. Use HPV programmatically.

### Testing Best Practices for Godot

When writing tests for this Godot project:

1. **Use `extends SceneTree` for HLC scripts**
   - Access autoloads via `root.get_node_or_null("AutoloadName")`
   - Use `call_deferred("_run_all_tests")` in `_init()`
   - Exit with `quit(0)` for pass, `quit(1)` for fail

2. **Test game state transitions properly**
   - Reset state between tests: `GameState.new_game()`
   - Progress flags sequentially (e.g., complete quest 4 before testing quest 5)
   - Don't create inconsistent states (e.g., quest_6_complete without quest_4_complete)

3. **Understand default game state**
   - `new_game()` sets `prologue_complete=true` by default
   - `new_game()` adds starter items (e.g., 3 wheat_seeds)
   - Account for these in test expectations

4. **Test structure**
   - Group related tests in functions (e.g., `test_hermes_quest_flow()`)
   - Use descriptive test names that explain what's being verified
   - Provide failure details: `record_test("Test name", condition, "Expected X, got Y")`

5. **Use skills for testing guidance**
   - `test-driven-development` - Before writing new features
   - `verification-before-completion` - Before claiming tests pass
   - `godot-dev` - For Godot-specific testing patterns

---

## ✅ Phase 4 Autonomous Execution Authorization

**GRANTED: Run Phase 4 (Balance and QA) completely autonomously.**

The user authorizes full execution of Phase 4 without additional input:

### Approved Actions:
- Execute all Phase 4 tasks from docs/execution/ROADMAP.md
- Run any HLC tests (`Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/*.gd`)
- Create new test files following existing patterns in `tests/` folder
- Run GdUnit4 suite and document results
- Update ROADMAP.md with Phase 4 findings and checkpoint
- Create verification scripts for difficulty tuning, D-pad controls, save/load
- Test soft-lock scenarios and document any issues
- Commit and push all Phase 4 changes to current branch

### Scope of Authorization:
- Phase 4 tasks: A (Full Playthrough Test), B (Difficulty Tuning), C (D-Pad Validation)
- Phase 4 tasks: D (Save/Load Validation), E (Soft-Lock Testing), F (Bug Logging)
- Any test files created for Phase 4 verification
- Documentation updates to ROADMAP.md
- Git operations for files I create

### Constraints:
- Stay within Phase 4 scope as defined in ROADMAP.md
- Don't modify game features (only testing/documentation)
- Report progress but don't ask for permission for each step
- If blockers arise, document them and continue with remaining tasks

**Authorization Start:** 2025-12-29
**Authorized by:** User (verbal approval)

---

## 📚 Additional Resources

**For comprehensive testing guidance, refer to:**
- **Human playability testing:** `tests/visual/playthrough_guide.md` - Testing methodology reference
- **Godot Tools reference:** `docs/testing/GODOT_TOOLS_GUIDE.md` - Cardinal Rules: HPV for UX validation section
- **Implementation patterns:** See `tests/autonomous_headed_playthrough.gd` for examples of programmatic state inspection

**For complete project directives, see:** `CLAUDE.md`

**For role-based permissions, see:** [`role-permissions.md`](./role-permissions.md)

**For skills inventory, see:** [`skill-inventory.md`](./skill-inventory.md)

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-08
**Source:** CLAUDE.md (lines 1-329)
**Purpose:** Core project rules and constraints for all agents

[Codex - 2026-01-08]

Commit message:

chore(testing): align HPV workflow and remove scripted playthroughs
Problem:
Scripted playthrough tests and their doc references were out of sync with the
current HPV approach, while quest completion dialogues and interaction logic
had inconsistencies that could block or confuse playthrough validation.

Root Cause:
Older SPT artifacts and references persisted after the workflow moved toward
MCP/manual HPV, dialogue resources used legacy flag names, and interaction
selection relied on first-overlap behavior.

Solution:
Remove scripted playthrough tests, update HPV guidance and the roadmap to
MCP/manual validation with minigame skips, align quest completion flags,
improve interaction targeting, and capture the HPV loop learning.

Changes:
- Remove scripted playthrough test files and update references across docs
- Add HPV field notes and MCP/manual guidance in testing docs and workflows
- Update ROADMAP test commands and Tier 1 framework notes
- Fix quest_4-quest_11 completion dialogue flag setters
- Improve player interaction targeting and expand interaction zone
- Add MCP input handler autoload and /explain command
- Add loop learning entry and temporary HPV notes

Verification:
Not run in this commit (documentation and wiring changes only).

docs/agent-instructions/core-directives/project-rules.md, after:

# Project Rules & Constraints

**Core directives all agents must follow**

These are the critical rules extracted from CLAUDE.md. All agents must understand and follow these constraints.

---

## 🚨 CRITICAL: NO SUB-AGENTS

**NEVER use the Task tool to spawn sub-agents.** This is an absolute rule with no exceptions.

Sub-agents burned 70k+ tokens in under a minute. This is unacceptable.

**Exception: USE the Skill tool to invoke project skills. Skills are NOT sub-agents.**

Skills provide specialized knowledge without spawning agents.

### Use Direct Tools Only

- Glob, Grep, Read, Edit, Write, Bash
- No Task tool for research, exploration, or delegation
- Even if skills instruct agent spawning, DO NOT DO IT

---

## 🛠️ Use Skills First - Before Manual Implementation

**CHECK AVAILABLE SKILLS BEFORE WRITING CODE**

Available project skills (see also: [`../core-directives/skill-inventory.md`](../core-directives/skill-inventory.md)):

- `godot-dev` - Godot Engine expertise (scenes, nodes, GDScript)
- `godot-gdscript-patterns` - GDScript best practices and patterns
- `pixel-art-professional` - Advanced pixel art techniques (dithering, palette optimization, shading)
- `systematic-debugging` - Debug workflow for errors/bugs
- `test-driven-development` - TDD workflow before implementation
- `git-best-practices` - Commit message generation
- `skill-gap-finder` - Identify when to create new skills
- `token-aware-planning` - Match model to task for efficiency
- `verification-before-completion` - Verify work before claiming complete
- Other skills listed in skill inventory

**When to invoke skills:**

1. Working with Godot → Use `godot-dev` or `godot-gdscript-patterns`
2. Working with pixel art → Use `pixel-art-professional` (dithering, palettes, shading)
3. Encountering bugs → Use `systematic-debugging`
4. Writing new features → Use `test-driven-development`
5. Creating commits → Use `git-best-practices`
6. Starting new task → Use `token-aware-planning`
7. User explicitly asks you to "use your [X] skill"

**How to invoke:**

```gdscript
Skill(skill: "godot-dev")
Skill(skill: "pixel-art-professional")
Skill(skill: "systematic-debugging")
```

**IMPORTANT:** Don't manually implement what skills already know.

---

## ⚡ Token Efficiency

- **Opus**: Strategic planning and architecture decisions only
- **Sonnet**: All execution and editing work
- Keep responses concise
- Don't read entire large files unless necessary

---

## 🚀 Task Initiation

**ALWAYS run the token-aware-planning skill at the start of every new chat or task.**

Use `/token-aware-planning` or the Skill tool to invoke it before beginning work.

**After running token-aware-planning, check for relevant skills:**

1. Is this a Godot task? → Invoke `godot-dev` or `godot-gdscript-patterns`
2. Working with pixel art? → Invoke `pixel-art-professional`
3. Did something break? → Invoke `systematic-debugging`
4. Building new functionality? → Invoke `test-driven-development`
5. Making a commit? → Invoke `git-best-practices`

---

## 📋 Multi-Step Project Planning Protocol

**When starting a new multi-step block of work, always follow this protocol:**

### Phase 1: Initial Understanding
- Explore codebase to understand current state
- Read relevant documentation
- Identify key files and patterns
- Use Glob, Grep, and Read tools directly (no sub-agents)

### Phase 2: Q&A Phase (MANDATORY for new blocks)
- Ask clarifying questions about scope, priorities, and assumptions
- Use AskUserQuestion tool to get user input
- Cover: implementation scope, file modifications, testing requirements, phase priorities

### Phase 3: Planning Phase
- Create detailed plan with phases
- Include specific file paths to modify
- Document user clarifications received
- State assumptions explicitly

### Phase 4: Review Phase
- Present plan to user
- Get approval before proceeding
- Adjust based on feedback

**When to apply this protocol:**

- ✅ New feature implementation
- ✅ Multi-file refactoring
- ✅ New quest/content development
- ✅ Significant testing methodology changes
- ✅ Project restructuring

**When NOT to apply:**

- ❌ Single file edits
- ❌ Small bug fixes
- ❌ Simple documentation updates
- ❌ Continuing existing task

---

## 📝 Planning and Documentation Guidelines

**CRITICAL: Avoid Documentation Clutter**

**DO NOT create one-off planning documents in `docs/plans/` unless the plan is a canonical reference needed by future agents.**

### When Planning:

1. **First Try TodoWrite**
   - Use `TodoWrite(todos=[...])` for most multi-step tasks
   - This is the preferred tracking method
   - Keep todo list as your plan

2. **Only Create Plan Documents If:**
   - The task is complex enough that a detailed plan is essential
   - The plan will be a **canonical reference** for future agents
   - You've tried TodoWrite and it's insufficient for the complexity

3. **Plan Document Storage:**
   - **Canonical docs** → `docs/plans/` (kept long-term, added to docs index)
   - **One-off implementation plans** → `temp/plans/` (deleted after completion)
   - **Never** create throwaway plans in `docs/plans/`

### Examples:

❌ **DON'T DO THIS:**
```
Created: docs/plans/my-implementation-plan-2026-01-03.md
Purpose: Just for this task
Result: Clutters repo with single-use documents
```

✅ **DO THIS:**
```
Option 1: Use TodoWrite
Option 2: If absolutely necessary, create in temp/plans/ and delete after completion
```

### Post-Task Cleanup:
- Review any plan documents created
- Move canonical docs to `docs/plans/` and add to index
- Delete one-off plans from `temp/plans/`
- Never leave throwaway plans in the repo

### Why This Matters:
- Keeps `docs/` clean with only canonical references
- Makes it easy for future agents to find important docs
- Reduces repository clutter and confusion
- TodoWrite is often sufficient for task tracking

**Rule of Thumb:**
- **80% of tasks** → TodoWrite
- **15% of tasks** → temp/plans/ (one-off plans)
- **5% of tasks** → docs/plans/ (canonical plans)

---

## 🧪 Testing Methodology Requirements

**CRITICAL:** This section establishes cardinal rules for how agents approach testing. These rules are essential for validating human playability of the game.

**Context:** HLC can pass (118/118) but humans may not be able to play due to UX issues. We use a two-layer testing strategy: Headless Logic Check (HLC) + Headed Playability Validation (HPV).

### Strongly Recommended Testing Approach

**For UX/Playability Validation (HPV):**
- **Preferred:** Use MCP or manual playthrough for headed validation
- **Tools:** MCP input + runtime inspection, Godot Tools debugger (F5) when useful
- **Approach:** Use human-like inputs, verify UI visibility, capture observations
  - **Scope:** Minigames are out of scope for HPV; skip them and mark completion via approved shortcuts unless Sam explicitly requests minigame testing.
- **Note:** Scripted Playthrough Testing (SPT) is automation, not a playtest. Use it when Sam explicitly asks; otherwise avoid it.

**For Logic Validation:**
**For Logic Validation (HLC):**
- **Appropriate:** Headless Logic Check via CLI (`Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/*.gd`)
- **Goal:** Verify mechanics work (quest flags, inventory, save/load, crafting logic, day advancement)
- **When to use:** Fast regression testing, CI/CD validation

### Critical Distinction: When to Use Each Approach

**Avoid falling back to HLC log parsing when the goal is UX validation.**

- **HLC log parsing** can tell you IF something broke, but not WHY the human experience is broken
- **HPV (headed) testing** lets agents see what renders and inspect game state at any moment

**When testing human playability:**
- ❌ **Don't:** Run HLC → parse logs → guess at UI issues
- ✅ **Do:** Run HPV with programmatic debugging → inspect visual state → document findings

### Programmatic Debugging for Autonomous Testing

Agents can validate UX with headed playthrough plus runtime inspection:

1. **Launch the game in headed mode** (editor run or MCP run_project).
2. **Use MCP to inspect state and simulate input** (scene tree, UI visibility, flags).
3. **Capture observations** (notes or screenshots) to confirm playability.

### Testing Best Practices for Godot

When writing tests for this Godot project:

1. **Use `extends SceneTree` for HLC scripts**
   - Access autoloads via `root.get_node_or_null("AutoloadName")`
   - Use `call_deferred("_run_all_tests")` in `_init()`
   - Exit with `quit(0)` for pass, `quit(1)` for fail

2. **Test game state transitions properly**
   - Reset state between tests: `GameState.new_game()`
   - Progress flags sequentially (e.g., complete quest 4 before testing quest 5)
   - Don't create inconsistent states (e.g., quest_6_complete without quest_4_complete)

3. **Understand default game state**
   - `new_game()` sets `prologue_complete=true` by default
   - `new_game()` adds starter items (e.g., 3 wheat_seeds)
   - Account for these in test expectations

4. **Test structure**
   - Group related tests in functions (e.g., `test_hermes_quest_flow()`)
   - Use descriptive test names that explain what's being verified
   - Provide failure details: `record_test("Test name", condition, "Expected X, got Y")`

5. **Use skills for testing guidance**
   - `test-driven-development` - Before writing new features
   - `verification-before-completion` - Before claiming tests pass
   - `godot-dev` - For Godot-specific testing patterns

---

## ✅ Phase 4 Autonomous Execution Authorization

**GRANTED: Run Phase 4 (Balance and QA) completely autonomously.**

The user authorizes full execution of Phase 4 without additional input:

### Approved Actions:
- Execute all Phase 4 tasks from docs/execution/ROADMAP.md
- Run any HLC tests (`Godot*.exe --headless --script tests/*.gd`)
- Create new test files following existing patterns in `tests/` folder
- Run GdUnit4 suite and document results
- Update ROADMAP.md with Phase 4 findings and checkpoint
- Create verification scripts for difficulty tuning, D-pad controls, save/load
- Test soft-lock scenarios and document any issues
- Commit and push all Phase 4 changes to current branch

### Scope of Authorization:
- Phase 4 tasks: A (Full Playthrough Test), B (Difficulty Tuning), C (D-Pad Validation)
- Phase 4 tasks: D (Save/Load Validation), E (Soft-Lock Testing), F (Bug Logging)
- Any test files created for Phase 4 verification
- Documentation updates to ROADMAP.md
- Git operations for files I create

### Constraints:
- Stay within Phase 4 scope as defined in ROADMAP.md
- Don't modify game features (only testing/documentation)
- Report progress but don't ask for permission for each step
- If blockers arise, document them and continue with remaining tasks

**Authorization Start:** 2025-12-29
**Authorized by:** User (verbal approval)

---

## 📚 Additional Resources

**For comprehensive testing guidance, refer to:**
- **Human playability testing:** `tests/visual/playthrough_guide.md` - Testing methodology reference
- **Godot Tools reference:** `docs/testing/GODOT_TOOLS_GUIDE.md` - Cardinal Rules: HPV for UX validation section

**For complete project directives, see:** `CLAUDE.md`

**For role-based permissions, see:** [`role-permissions.md`](./role-permissions.md)

**For skills inventory, see:** [`skill-inventory.md`](./skill-inventory.md)

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-09
**Source:** CLAUDE.md (lines 1-329)
**Purpose:** Core project rules and constraints for all agents

[Codex - 2026-01-09]
